{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b\i\f0\fs22                                                                     Worksheet - 1\par
Q.1) Which Country has scored highest Gold medals in the Common Wealth Games 2022?\par
A. India\par
B. Canada\par
C. Wales\par
D. Australia - Correct\par
Q.2) Which country did withdrawal from the Chess Tournament 2022 recently?\par
A. Pakistan - Correct\par
B. India\par
C. Nepal\par
D. Srilanka\par
Q.3) Vikas Thakur who won a silver medal for India at Commonwealth Games 2022 is associated with\par
which sport?\par
A. Tennis\par
B. Weightlifting - Correct\par
C. Cricket\par
D. Kabadi\par
Q.4) Who has won India's first-ever medal in the high jump at Commonwealth Games 2022 recently?\par
A. Hima Das\par
B. Murali Prasad\par
C. Tejaswin Shankar - Correct\par
D. Villa Park Stadium\par
 Q.5) Tulika Mann has won a silver medal in which sport at Commonwealth Games 2022 recently?\par
A. Squash\par
B. Track and Field\par
C. Judo - Correct\par
D. Weightlifting\par
 Q.6) Who scored a crucial victory for India against Hungary at the 44th Chess Olympiad?\par
A. Koneru Humpy\par
B. Tania Sachdev\par
C. Harika Dronavalli\par
D. Suhani Shah\par
E. All of These - Correct\par
Q.7) Which TMC political leader skipped CBI appearance on 8 August 2022?\par
A. Rajiv Shukla\par
B. Akhilesh Yadav\par
C. Anubrata Mondal - Correct\par
D. Jai Nath Sen\par
Q.8) UP Govt Plans to Double Farmers income under ____________ August 8, 2022.\par
A. Prashadam Scheme\par
B. Punchamrut Yojna - Correct\par
 C. Kisan Pragati Yojna\par
 D. Anndata project\par
Q.9) Who has elected as the new Vice-President of India?\par
 A. Jagdeep dhankhar - Correct\par
 B. Udhav Thackery\par
 C. Draupadi Murmu\par
 D. Vainkaiya Naidu\par
 Q.10) Which campaign has been launched by the Prime Minister to encourage people to bring Indian Flag at home and hoist?\par
A .Aajadi ka Amrit Mahotsava\par
B.Khelo Bharat\par
C. Har Ghar Tiranga - Correct\par
D.Mission Aajadi\par
 Q.11) \ldblquote Modi is a weapon mass deception and distraction\rdblquote  Who stated the statement?\par
 A. Rahul Yadav\par
B. Jai Ram Ramesh - Correct\par
C. Bhagvant Maan\par
D. Arvind Kejriwal\par
Q.12) Who has recently performed the duty of Vice-Chairman in the meet of Neeti Aayog?\par
A. Rajan Dahiya\par
B. Shashank Verma\par
C. Suman Beri - Correct\par
D. Paras Saarthi\par
 Q.13 .Which institution launched \lquote Face recognition facility\rquote  for pensioners to submit .\par
their life certificate?\par
 A.LIC\par
 B.PFRDA\par
 C.EPFO - Correct\par
D. IRDAI\par
 Q. 14.Which milestone was achieved in UPI transactions in July 2022?\par
A. 3 Billion\par
B. 5 Billion\par
C. 6 Billion - Correct\par
D. 10 Billion\par
Q .15 Who is the author of the book titled \lquote Asha and the Spirit Bird\rquote , which recently won the UK\par
children\rquote s book award?\par
 A. Madhuri Vijay\par
 B. Jasbinder Bilan - Correct\par
 C. Meghna Pant\par
 D. Ira Trivedi\par
Q. 16 Betty Wright, who recently passed away, was associated with which profession?\par
 A. Sportsman\par
 B. Singer - Correct\par
 C. Politician\par
 D. Scientist\par
Q. 17 Which state has recently reduced the retirement age of government employees to 58 years?\par
A.Odisha\par
B.Rajasthan\par
C.Punjab - Correct\par
D Andhra Pradesh\par
Q.18 India discussed with UN Secretary General on the recent attack on UN mission personnel in which\par
country?\par
A. Sudan\par
B. Congo - Correct\par
C. Ethiopia\par
D. Sri Lanka\par
Q.19 ) Where is Asia Cup 2022 going to be held?\par
A. India\par
B. Pakistan\par
C. UAE - Correct\par
D. West Indies\par
Q. 20 Who inaugurated Telecommunication Union\rquote s Regional Standardization Forum in August\par
2022?\par
 A. Ashok Gehlot\par
 B. Yogi Adityanath\par
 C. Devusinh Chauhan - Correct\par
 D. Vasundhara Raje\par
Q. 21 Name the Shiv Sena Minister who has been sent to 14 days judicial custody for money\par
laundering case?\par
 A. Raj Thackery\par
 B. Udhav Thackery\par
 C. Chiraj Paswan\par
 D. Sanjay Raut - Correct\par
Q.22 How many countries have participated in commonwealth games 2022?\par
A. 43\par
B. 72 - Correct\par
C. 65\par
D. 76\par
Q. 23 What is the theme of \lquote National Doctor\rquote s Day 2022\rquote ?\par
A. Doctors are guardian\par
B. Family doctors on the front line - Correct\par
C. Respect and dignity to Doctors\par
D. Insurance to doctors\par
Q. 24 Which is the venue of the 11th World Urban Forum held in 2022?\par
[A]Spain\par
[B]Poland - Correct\par
[C]Australia\par
[D] France\par
Q. 25 \lquote Just Stop Oil\rquote  which was seen in the news recently, is a group of climate activists based in which\par
country?\par
[A]USA\par
[B]UK - Correct\par
[C]Germany\par
[D] Italy\par
\par
\par
                                                                            Worksheet -2\par
Section - A :- Choose the Correct Answers\par
1. Recently in which city of Uttar Pradesh The twin tower building was demolished ?\par
A. Noida - Correct\par
B. Delhi\par
C. Jaipur \par
D. Lucknow\par
2. Tell the name of the sportsman whose birth anniversary we celebrate as the National\par
sports Day on 29 August every year.\par
A. P.T. Usha \par
B. Major Dhyan Chand- Correct\par
C. Virat Kohli \par
D. Mary Kom\par
3. Who has elected as 14th Vice President of India on 11 August 2022?\par
A. Vainkaiya Naidu\par
B. Nitin Gadkari\par
C. Jagdeep Dhankar - Correct\par
D. Smriti Irani\par
4. How many countries did participate in commonwealth games 2022?\par
A. 72 - Correct\par
B. 60\par
C. 55 \par
D. 85\par
5. Which position was scored by India in Common Wealth Games 2022?\par
A. 4th - Correct \par
B. 1st \par
C. 3rd  \par
D. 9th \par
6. In which city Prime Minister has inaugurated the iconic riverfront Atal Bridge on 27th\par
August?\par
A. Delhi \par
B. Ahemdabad\par
C. Mumbai \par
D. Chennai\par
7. Tell the name of the Captain of Indian Cricket Team in Asia Cup 2022?\par
A. Virat Kohli \par
B. Rohit Sharma\par
C. KL Rahul \par
D. Hardik Pandya\par
8. Which river is associated with the Atal bridge?\par
A. Sabarmati River \par
B. Ganga River\par
C. Narmada River \par
D. Ravi River\par
9. Which Country has scored highest Gold medals in the Common Wealth Games 2022?\par
A. Australia \par
B. China\par
C. India \par
D. Poland\par
10. In which country Asia Cup is being played?\par
A. Pakistan \par
B. Sri Lanka\par
C. UAE \par
D. UK\par
                                                                       Worksheet - 3\par
1. Which state launched the \lquote Punyakoti Dattu Yojana\rquote  portal for adopting cows?\par
a. Uttar Pradesh \par
b. Karnataka\par
c. Chhattisgarh \par
d. Madhya Pradesh\par
2. As per Bloomberg Billionaires Index, who is the richest woman in Asia?\par
a. Savitri Jindal \par
b. Kiran Mazumdar Shah\par
c. Falguni Nayar \par
d. Radha Vembu\par
3. Which country\rquote s Railways has set up the world\rquote s first solar power plant to directly\par
power Overhead line?\par
a. China \par
b. India\par
c. United states \par
d. Singapore\par
4. .\lquote Dahi-Handi\rquote  has been announced as the official sport of which state?\par
a. Gujarat \par
b. Uttar Pradesh\par
c. Madhya Pradesh \par
d. Maharashtra\par
5. What is the growth forecast of IMF for India in 2022-23, as per its recent update?\par
a. 8.0 % \par
b. 7.8 %\par
c. 7.6 % \par
d. 7.4 %\par
6. Which Indian state launched \lquote Krishna Kunj\rquote  plantation drive?\par
a. Punjab \par
b. Gujarat\par
c. Bihar \par
d. Chhattisgarh\par
7. Which Indian has been appointed to the UN Internet Governance Forum (IGF) Leadership Panel?\par
a. Alkesh Kumar Sharma \par
b. Nandan Nilekani\par
c. K V Kamath \par
d. Kris Gopalakrishnan\par
8. Who received the 2022 UNESCO Peace Prize in recognition of efforts to welcome refugees?\par
a. Joe Biden \par
b. Narendra Modi\par
c. Angela Merkel \par
d.Volodymyr Zelenskyy\par
9. Who is the first Indian sportsperson to clinch the prestigious Diamond League Meet title?\par
a. P V Sindhu \par
b. Dhanalakshmi\par
c. Neeraj Chopra \par
d. Hima Das\par
10. Who has become first Indian player to have played 100 matches each in all three formats of the game?\par
a. M S Dhoni \par
b. Virat Kohli\par
c. Rohit Sharma \par
d. Shikhar Dhawan\par
11. What is \lquote Azadi Quest\rquote , which was launched recently by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting?\par
a. Quiz for Students\par
b. Educational mobile games\par
c. Compendium on freedom fighters\par
d. Book on freedom fighters\par
12. Who has been selected as the 14th Vice President of India?\par
a. Jagdeep Dhankhar \par
b.Margaret Alva\par
c. Kalyan Singh \par
d.Shivraj Patil\par
13. .Which state has launched its \lquote Footwear & Leather Products Policy 2022\rquote ?\par
a. West Bengal \par
b. Tamil Nadu\par
c. Odisha \par
d. Karnataka\par
14. Which company has developed India\rquote s first indigenously-developed RT-PCR kit for testing monkeypox\par
disease?\par
a. Biocon \par
b. Bharat Biotech\par
c. Transasia Bio-Medicals \par
d. Serum Institute of India\par
15. Which Indian chess player has recorded third consecutive win in his career against Magnus Carlsen?\par
a. Gukesh D \par
b.Praggnanandhaa R\par
c.Vidit Gujrathi \par
d. Nihal Sarin\par
16. Who has won India's first-ever medal in the high jump at Commonwealth Games 2022 recently?\par
a.Hima Das \par
b.Murali Prasad\par
c.Tejaswin Shankar \par
d. Radha Maheshwari\par
17. Which milestone was achieved in UPI transactions in July 2022?\par
 a. 3 Billion \par
b. 5 Billion\par
c. 6 Billion \par
d. 10 Billion\par
18. Which state has recently reduced the retirement age of government employees to 58 years?\par
 a.Odisha \par
b. Punjab\par
c. Rajasthan \par
d. Goa\par
19. Which country is the host for Asia Cup 2022?\par
 a. India \par
b.Pakistan\par
 c. UAE \par
d. West Indies\par
21. How many countries participated in commonwealth games 2022?\par
 a. 43 \par
b. 72\par
 c.65 \par
d. 76\par
22. Which Indian state launched seed distribution to farmers based on blockchain technology?\par
 a. Punjab \par
b. Jharkhand\par
c. Haryana \par
d .Gujarat\par
23. ___________ is the first Central Government hospital in India to start the latest Robot Surgery facility.\par
a.Delhi Government hospital\par
b. Bhagvan Mahaveer Hospital\par
c. Dr. Baba saheb ambedkar Hospital\par
d. Safdarganj Hospital\par
24. Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, who passed away recently, was associated with which profession?\par
 a. Invester \par
b. Singer\par
 c. Politician \par
d. Scientist\par
25. Which company has collaborated with Indian government to train nearly 2.5 million civil servants?\par
 a. Google \par
b. Microsoft\par
 c. Meta \par
d. IBM\par
26. Which Indian billionaire surpassed Bill Gates to become the world\rquote s fourth-richest person?\par
a. Mukesh Ambani \par
b. Gautam Adani\par
c. Lakshmi Mittal \par
d. Roshni Nadar\par
27. Which Indian Armed Force conducted a large-scale exercise named \lquote Skylight\rquote ?\par
a. Indian Air Force \par
b. Indian Navy\par
c. Indian Army \par
d. Indian Coast Guard\par
28. After the recent political turnaround in Bihar, who sworn in as the Chief Minister of the state?\par
a. Tejashvi Kumar \par
b. Nitish Kumar\par
c. Lalu Prasad Yadav \par
d. Sushil Modi\par
29. Which country chairs the UN Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee for 2022?\par
a. China \par
b. Russia\par
c. India \par
d. Kazakhstan\par
30. Recently, Union Government has approved a river interlinking project worth rupees 4,900 crore for\par
which rivers in Bihar?\par
 a. Kosi and Mechi \par
b. Ken- Betwa\par
 c. Ganga Yamuna \par
d. Kosi-Yamuna\par
31. Which Country has score the d highest Gold medals in the Common Wealth Games 2022?\par
A. India\par
B. Canada\par
C. Wales\par
D. Australia\par
32. Which country did withdrawal from the Chess Tournament 2022 recently?\par
A. Pakistan\par
B. India\par
C. Nepal\par
D. Sri lanka\par
33. Vikas Thakur who won a silver medal for India at Commonwealth Games 2022 is associated with\par
which sport?\par
a. Tennis\par
b. Weightlifting\par
c. Cricket\par
d. Kabadi\par
34. Who has won India's first-ever medal in the high jump at Commonwealth Games 2022 recently?\par
i. Hima Das\par
ii. Murali Prasad\par
iii. Tejaswin Shankar\par
iv. Villa Park Stadium\par
35. Tulika Mann has won a silver medal in which sport at Commonwealth Games 2022 recently?\par
A. Squash\par
B. Track and Field\par
C. Judo\par
D. Weightlifting\par
36. Who scored a crucial victory for India against Hungary at the 44th Chess Olympiad?\par
i. Koneru Humpy\par
ii. Tania Sachdev\par
iii. Harika Dronavalli\par
iv. Suhani Shah\par
37. Which TMC political leader skipped CBI appearance on 8 August 2022?\par
i. Rajiv Shukla\par
ii. Akhilesh Yadav\par
iii. Anubrata Mondal\par
iv. Jai Nath Sen\par
39. What is the theme of \lquote National Doctor\rquote s Day 2022\rquote ?\par
A. Doctors are guardian\par
B. Family doctors on the front line\par
C. Respect and dignity to Doctors\par
D. Insurance to doctors\par
40. \lquote Rice Fortification\rquote  in India is implemented through which Ministry?\par
A. Ministry of Agriculture\par
B. Ministry of Law and Justice\par
C. Ministry of Education\par
D. Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Food Distribution\par
41. Which political party is going to elect its president in October 2022?\par
A. BJP \par
B. AAP\par
C. Congress \par
D. BSP\par
42. In which city Prime Minister has inaugurated the iconic riverfront Atal Bridge on 27th August?\par
A. Mathura \par
B. Noida\par
C. Ahamdabad \par
D. Bengaluru\par
43. Which state has recently reduced the retirement age of government employees to 58 years?\par
A.Odisha\par
B.Rajasthan\par
C.Punjab\par
D Andhra Pradesh\par
44. Who is the author of the book titled \lquote Asha and the Spirit Bird\rquote , which recently won the UK children\rquote s\par
book award?\par
 A. Madhuri Vijay\par
 B. Jasbinder Bilan\par
 C. Meghna Pant\par
 D. Ira Trivedi\par
45. Which Country has scored highest Gold medals in the Common Wealth Games 2022?\par
 A. India B. China\par
 C. USA D. Australia\par
46. What is the budgetary outlay of \lquote Computerisation of Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS)?\par
A. 216 Crore\par
B. 2516 Crore\par
C. 750 Crore\par
D. 7216 Crore\par
47. Which campaign has been launched by the Prime Minister to encourage people to bring Indian Flag at\par
home and hoist?\par
A. Aajadi ka Amrit Mahotsava\par
B.Khelo Bharat\par
C Har Ghar Tiranga\par
D.Mission Aajadi\par
48. Which institution approved two loans of USD 500 million each to support India\rquote s health sector?\par
[A] ADB\par
[B] AIIB\par
[C] World Bank\par
[D] IMF\par
49. Recently in which city of Uttar Pradesh The twin tower building was demolished?\par
A. Delhi \par
B. Noida\par
C. Amritsar \par
D. Jaipur\par
50. Which mobile network company is set to role out the 5G network plan this year on Diwali?\par
A. Reliance Jio \par
B. Airtel\par
C. Vodaphone \par
D. MTNL\par
}
 